---
title: "DIY MBA"
layout: single
classes: wide
tags: [life-snippets, MBA]

excerpt: " "

header:
  image: /assets/images/MBA.jpg
  image_description: ""
  caption: "Photo credit: [**Aman Mundra**](/about/)"

permalink:
published: true
categories: 
---

- Management consulting firms
- Investment banks
- Private equity funds

[Best-in-class MBA admissions consulting & application review services](https://www.mbacrystalball.com/)
[Best strategy consulting firms | Management Consulting 101](https://www.mbacrystalball.com/blog/2012/09/04/best-consulting-firms-strategy/)
[porters five forces](https://www.mbacrystalball.com/blog/strategy/porters-five-forces/)
 
 
# MBA core courses
 
## Corporate Finance
The main objective of the course is to develop insight into the process by which firms can create value for their shareholders 
by formulating strategies in which finance is a crucial competitive weapon. 
Topics include discounted cash flow models, risk and return, capital asset pricing model, capital market efficiency, capital structure and the cost of capital, dividend policy, and leasing.

## Financial Accounting
Designed to develop an understanding of accounting principles for users of accounting information. 
The course looks at how users of financial information interpret accounting reports when making business decisions. 
The emphasis is on profitability concepts and performance evaluation. 

## Managerial Statistics
Introduces students to basic concepts in probability and statistics of relevance to managerial decision making. 
Topics include basic data analysis, random variables and probability distributions, sampling distributions, interval estimation, hypothesis testing and regression. 
Numerous examples are chosen from quality-control applications, finance, marketing and management.

## Managerial Economics
This course’s objective is to give you insight into how markets function. The decisions made by individual managers and consumers generate the fundamentals of market supply and demand, 
governing the prices and quantities sold in all economic transactions. 
As a manager seeking to maximize firm value, understanding your market(s) is crucial to achieving your goals. 
The first part of the course examines how managers make day-to-day decisions about running their businesses when their product is sold in a market that works efficiently. 
It will also address what types of industries are most likely to be efficient, either by default (commodities such as wheat and copper) or by design (electricity markets).

The second part of the course examines the decision making process when, for various reasons, a firm has market power. 
This refers to all situations where an individual firm has a direct influence on the market price of the product. 
We will discuss how managers can use this influence to generate firm value and set out situations in which managers can try to increase their market power. 
We will also use the tools developed along the way to understand the implications of market failure and some public policy solutions to economic inefficiency. 
Managerial economics is an important component of the MBA program. Its focus on how individuals make optimal decisions in different circumstances underpins much of both the core 
and elective curriculum. 

## Strategy Formulation
This course is about the determinants of firm performance. It develops an explanation for why some firms perform better than others, and presents the analytical tools 
required to formulate successful strategies. Students will learn to analyze firms' competitive environments and to design a strategy that specifies appropriate long-term goals 
for a corporation, the businesses in which it will compete, how it will serve customers better than its competitors, and the capabilities that will be required in the service 
of these objectives. Learning is primarily through discussion of cases and articles with supporting short lectures and written assignments.

## Marketing
Marketing activity is the engine that creates value in a business. It provides the focus for interfacing with customers and the source of intelligence about customers, 
competitors and the general environment. Further, marketing focuses on the long-run relationship of a company to its customers as well as on short-run sales. 
Thus marketing is critical to the revenue and profit streams for a company. This course emphasizes the role of marketing in creating value for customers, which in turn creates value 
for owners, shareholders and employees.

Tools and Concepts Taught in the Course
Basic quantitative analysis in marketing
Analyzing cases
Analyzing market opportunities
Competitive analysis
Customer decision making
Customer value
Value of brand
Segmentation and target selection
Product positioning
Customer acquisition and retention
 
## Operations Management
This course provides a fundamental understanding of manufacturing and service operations and their role in the organization. 
Surveys a wide range of operations topics, including process flow analysis, supply chain management, capacity planning, facilities location, and total quality management. 
Deals with these topics through a managerial, applications-oriented perspective. 

## Business Analytics
This course is about modeling and how computer models can support managerial decision making. A model is a simplified representation of a real situation and modeling is 
the process of developing, analyzing and interpreting a model in order to help make better decisions. Models can be invaluable tools in managing and understanding the complexity 
and risk inherent in many business problems. As a result, models have become an increasingly important part of business at all levels from daily operations to strategic decision making.

## Global Economic Environment
These courses explore the fundamentals of national competitiveness, productivity and growth. It studies the forces that determine production, consumption, savings and investment. 
It introduces the problem of variable foreign exchange rates and their impact on policy, performance and finance. 
It explores the complex relationships among government policies and private-sector performance in a global setting.


# MBA must reads
Reading is one of the best ways for MBA students to achieve a multi-perspective understanding of business and management principles. 
But you can't just pick up any book and expect to learn the lessons you need to know to succeed in today's business environment. It's important to choose the right reading material.

[Best Management Consulting Books](https://www.mbacrystalball.com/blog/2014/05/23/best-management-consulting-books/)
[12 Books From Which to Build a DIY MBA for the 2020 Leader](https://www.inc.com/james-kerr/12-books-from-which-to-build-a-diy-mba-for-the-2020-leader.html)
[Top 10 Best Strategy Books](https://www.wallstreetmojo.com/top-best-strategy-books/)
[The Best Business Books for MBA Students](https://www.thoughtco.com/the-best-business-books-for-mba-students-4159952)
[https://thehustle.co/read-these-books-instead-of-getting-mba](https://thehustle.co/read-these-books-instead-of-getting-mba)
[BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. SHAREHOLDER LETTERS](http://www.berkshirehathaway.com/letters/letters.html)
